What is Python and why is it popular?
Python is a language for web and software development because you can create complex, multi-protocol applications with easily readable syntax. 
Python is popular because it is easy tolearn,free to use and is supported by an extremely large ecosystem of libraries and packages.

What is the difference between a tuple and a list in Python?
Tuples are immutable as opposed to lists which are mutable. Therefore, it is possible to change a list but not a tuple.
The contents of a tuple cannot change once they have been created in Python due to the immutability of tuples.

What are the differences between Python 2 and Python 3?
Python 2 stores strings by ASCII; Python 3 uses Unicode. 
Python 2 has a more complex syntax than Python 3.
Many Python 2 libraries aren't forward compatible; many libraries exclusively use Python 3.
Python discontinued Python 2 support in January 2020; Python 3 remains.
In Exceptions, Python 3 should be enclosed in parenthesis. Python 2 should be enclosed in notations.

How do you create a dictionary in Python?
create an empty dictionary, first create a variable name which will be the name of the dictionary.
Then, assign the variable to an empty set of curly braces, 
sample_dictionary = {"apple", "Orange"}

Another way of creating an empty dictionary is to use the dict() function without passing any arguments.
sample_dictionary = dict()

What is a function in Python and how do you define one?
A function is a set of codes which only runs when it is called. You can pass data, known as parameters, into a function. 
A function can return data as a result and it can be defined using 'def' keyword.
def test_func():
  print("sucess")


What is object-oriented programming (OOP) and how does it relate to Python?
Developers often choose to use OOP in their Python programs because it makes code more reusable and makes it easier to work with larger programs.
Python relates oops by utilising the feature like encapsulation, abstraction, inheritance and polymorphism

How do you handle exceptions in Python?
Python handles exceptions using try, except, else & finally blocks.
The try block test a block of code for errors.
The except block will handle the error.
The else block will execute code when there is no error.
The finally block will execute code, regardless of the result of the try- and except blocks.

How do you read and write files in Python?
open(), read() & readline() - it is used to read the content of the file by character & by line .
 append() - writes the content to end of the file
 write() - overwrites the content in the file

How do you install and use external packages in Python?
PIP used to install the packages and import will be used for utilising the external packages

How do you use the "if" statement in Python to perform conditional execution?

If statement used with conditional statements (AND, OR, NOT) will perform the conditional Execution of If loop.